right now I'm with one who I suspect
could just be the next time honestly
he's he's building a system called I PFS
which is the interplanetary file system
it's meant to complement in HTTP in the
beginning but then it might end up doing
just a lot more than HTTP and be a
replacement to it would also be
replacement to it so one let's have your
introduction first my own interaction or
own like how short a short background I
was a super system researcher for a
while like I studied at Stanford I happy
working on open source and knowledge
tools for quite some time and ran into a
problem around the lack of a a good
storage interface for the for the
International like a good protocol that
leverages the speed of the network when
we're in matters and that allows
different kinds of distribution
protocols to be plugged in and I found
that there's what actually many many
problems with how the web structure
today that we can fix and I built a
system that then turned into a PFS that
solves a lot of these problems and we're
in the process of deploying it widely in
the network and a lot of people are
using it and it's growing and it's great
I don't know is that yeah so so so far
our listeners we already have an episode
from one on episode a Bitcoin you
recommend you to go and watch it because
it's it's it's really good and it really
clears up a lot of things about the
future of the of the web in general so
right now we will focus specifically on
the combination of I PFS any Syrian
because a lot of developers seem to be
building on it so one what kinds of
projects have you seen at the DEFCON
during that combined I PFS and athyrium
yeah actually a lot so I got it so I
spoke on on Monday kind of about i
professed generally and I included some
examples there so they vary between
applications that are built with
athyrium that have some other component
outside and they are usually using I PFS
to address all of their content and to
distribute all of their content there
are applications that live on I PFS so
these are adapts that all of the assets
are stored and distributed with I PFS
itself and they just connect to etherium
indirectly so or so they they're
actually driven through IVFs and live on
the IPF s network there is there are the
most interesting use cases for me at
least are when so one of them is when
people are actually using smart
contracts that address objects in ipf s
and when people when the etherium chain
itself both the state the Merkel
Patricia state tree and the entire
theorem chain can be layered over IP FS
and can be made into I PFS objects and
so that's something that we've been
talking about and discussing I've been
discussing with a core team for Question
Time already in that is an interesting
thing for the future it's not clear how
a will be done on whether it be done but
that is a very appealing way to layer
the projects together and leverage the
strengths of ipf s4 athyrium one thing
that if your room notes would get is the
ability to use to address a theorem
content both contracts or state in the
state tree or change the chain itself
like elements of the chain itself and
create links that link into that the
chain that other I PFS nodes can
understand that perhaps don't implement
athyrium specific stuff so that means
that as the IPF s network increases in
size and as many more I person exists
applications can be built that move
around etherium the etherium chain
itself through nodes that don't
themselves know anything about a theorem
and this is a really powerful way to get
a theorem to be used across a whole
bunch of places where people may not
want to directly create nodes and use
them but you can now send them an
application in JavaScript
that runs on I PFS node and then can
move around it here in the state which
is cool cool so so so let's break break
down break down these two these two
examples so the first one is an example
where you have a contract like for
example there's an artist he he releases
music and he has data about how much he
wants to charge for that piece of music
on the etherium network and on the
etherium network somebody can pay this
contract in order to compensate the
artist now the problem with this helium
network is that storage is extremely
expensive because if every every piece
of data is to be stored on each node of
the theorem network so what you're
saying is instead of the music file
living on a Syrian the music could
itself live on I PFS but the payment
could be processed on a serious yeah and
the point is like the link that you put
on the chain is an IP FS link so this is
true for both athyrium and bitcoin and
other block chains people are starting
to put links to content that is you know
large files that you don't want to
include on the chain itself and these
are necessarily files you could be this
could be a large you know record system
a whole file system like whatever is
just any kind of collect collection or
bundle of data and people putting links
to that stuff with I PFS because that
guarantees you a link that is not
addressed by location its address either
by content or by key Authority which
gives you either immutable content that
will be the same forever or gives you a
mutable content but only based on a key
which is very different from the HTTP
world right so if you put a URL or
you're right into a blockchain it might
not if you put a URL it may not survive
you know a hundred days or however
whatever the mean lifetime of a website
is these days you our eyes are better'n
I PFS links are your eyes but it gives
you a nice way to resolve all these
links because we people were doing
before was just putting hashes into the
chain and these hashes are just hashes
like where do you look them up you don't
have a standard system to look up all
these hashes and that's what ifs is one
use case for that
so in this particular use case what what
kind of interests me is the so let's say
let's say you have some data in ipf s
and this smart contact actually wants to
compute on that data so I I don't have a
very specific example coming to my mind
right now but it could be oh there's the
second example so Christian from
consensus build persona and persona puts
the profiles and like all of the data on
I PFS so they have a set of ipf us notes
and they back up the persona content and
but it's all addressed with ipf s so you
could add your own node and help back it
up and eventually there'll be some
incentive layer to get nodes to
distribute that data as well but it's
all address this way but now let's go
into this scenario where actually a
smart contract so let's say let's say
there's a profile data on I PFS through
the persona system and the smart
contract is structured in a way that
when a certain transaction hits the
smart contract it wants to make a change
to this data item on I PFS so it wants
to actually transform that data item
from a1 to a2 and link it with with that
first of all you do something like this
I believes you can yeah I think that so
I don't know if the smart contract the
citizen now can mutate any state beyond
the state tree I'm not a hundred percent
sure about that it was in FN discussions
early on where that was a possibility
but it may be that the AVM right now is
just pure and there it can do no io
beyond its own state tree but you could
totally see that being a trivial
addition like you could add certain up
codes that mutate state on I PFS but you
cannot also reference the state tree as
being itself stored on IP of us okay and
suppose a contract for its functioning
depends on some data which was on I PFS
so there might be a contract that does
one action if this deeper the gender of
a purse of a profile on persona
is male and some other thing if the
gender is female now if you have a
contract like that it's not trying to
change the data on I PFS but it's just
acting on some data one that is on I PFS
then first of all can you build a
contract like that I believe that's the
case I have to look carefully at how the
personal contracts are set up but I
believe like the addresses that are
stored into the contracts are pointers
to are basically address IP addresses so
yeah it can manipulate it's just a
string at the end of the day right so
you can manipulate strings I don't think
that the evm itself can load data from
my because yet it might be able to Roger
so um yeah but this kind of kind of yeah
so this actually leads to the other
other application you are talking about
which is to basically remove this
barrier between the etherium state state
tree and and the IPF esmeralda all
together and have the etherium state
tree as a part of the I PFS multiple
diagram itself that would be the
ultimate thing because then a contract
could basically refer to anything else
that exists on the on the IPS so that's
an extremely powerful use case where you
suddenly get the ability to reference
any data on the network itself and act
upon it from the EVM so the EVM can then
create references to objects that are
outside of its normal state tree and
that are linked I mean you can think of
these as like git repositories or even
even other block chains like you could
address objects on Bitcoin or some other
block chain or the web itself right so
there's a lot of websites that are now
being distributed I PFS there's people
creating websites and web apps where the
data models of the of the application
are just nodes in the I PFS graph so you
can now have a way to address all of
that content and manipulate it with with
the evm even if it wasn't initially
constructed as part of the
if it wasn't it it wasn't initially and
a theorem application it can now become
one which might be a powerful way of
increasing adoption so how would that
work so in a sense today when you I want
to an idiom full note I have to download
gets from from github and it it
basically starts a full node it connects
to other nodes in the theorem Network
fetches data so instead so gates would
basically have an IP FS module inside it
so when as soon as I start guess I PFS
is initializing the background and it's
trying to gather all the data and just
as it pulls each helium transaction data
from the network it also starts pulling
in it can also has the ability to put in
other kinds of data it could be whatever
is linked to right so you could
potentially create something like bit
helps a bit hub was this program a while
back that was a bot that would tip
people with Bitcoin so it had a it had a
fund and it would tip people with
Bitcoin for every commit they did Tory
passare so if the commit got merged then
people could claim some reward and that
reward which is sent to them is a
Bitcoin transaction and this was a
program that someone had to run and you
had to run this bot right but you could
just do this as it's not smart contract
on a theorem itself like you need to not
run no infrastructure but then the
interesting part would be being able to
do this as just a contract manipulating
the graph and checking the commits
themselves without those commits being
part of the theorem state tree there you
know part of a get in the part of github
or whatever but now the theory vm could
load those up and manipulate them so
yeah so so so in a sense right now if so
what are you saying is right now it's
like the smart contracts and let's say
the git repository they are on two
different systems yes and when you merge
these two into one giant one giant
merkel webplus yeah multiple ischia tree
then things like you commit something
and it gets merged and you get paid
automatically start to open up so what
happened so in the in the 90s right
before the HTTP web before Tim
berners-lee created the HTTP web there
were a lot of different hypertext
systems and these were
or they you know there was a gopher
protocol anybody before that there were
a whole bunch of other applications that
were hypertext systems and some of them
were connected through the network but
they were totally independent and had
different formats and so on and one of
the major contributions of HTTP and HTML
and the and the web model was to bridge
all of those together and create one web
and create one network that could
address every single other system and
you know there was a lot of work put
into creating the URLs and the URI is to
make all of this actually makes sense
make it all Universal make it all be
able to talk to each other and a lot of
people start building just simple
translation layers between HTTP and
those other systems and it worked out
extremely well and for them for the
longest time we just had one web that
everyone contributed to then kind of
some crack start appearing because HTTP
is not the best transport protocol for
everything you know it had to be its own
protocol BitTorrent was is empirical
there were a lot of other peer-to-peer
systems that were their own protocols
Bitcoin had to again implement its own
hope your peers things if your
room the same stuff so all these
different webs are starting to emerge
again but these webs are different they
they're not just hypertext systems like
the old days these are hyper hyper set
media systems where the links are
actually merkel links these are links
that are addressed by hash so their
content address links but all of these
data structures and networks have the
same property in mind so just like in
the old days of the web you could again
create the same kind of unifying layer
that can address and point to from one
any one of these networks to any other
network and so we in a way that's one of
the big contributions of my bffs coming
up with the right way to address just
merkel based authenticated data
structures you know get bitcoin theorem
bittorrent just there's a lot ton of
this please and address in such a way
that you can create links from one to
the other rape and so why is it that a
git commit doesn't have like a proper
identity on persona right look you could
have that or why is it that like
eh yeah you should be able to like
create a contract that causes people to
become seeds on the Victorian network or
that causes people to like distribute
files on I PFS right and so all of that
could be possible if we start adopting
like one common way of linking between
the systems yeah one's shine we should
have one web right like we shouldn't
have multiple labs we should have one
web where you can address anything from
any other place solo that seems like a
very very great idea but so let's also
say that I BFS is also taking a position
on how data should be moved across
across physical networks across the web
right so you have this bit swap protocol
to move ah BitTorrent like based on
BitTorrent you you have a way of moving
data across the face yeah well we don't
we don't claim that that's the only way
so the thing about I PFS is that it's a
very modular protocol that there are
some problems we have to solve right we
have to be able to move the content and
so on and so we have some protocols for
that but I bffs itself is designed so
that you can swap out all those pieces
so if you don't like moving things with
the swap if you just want to use HTTP or
you just want to use FTP for example you
could totally do it and if you didn't
want to use a DHD and you want to use
some other routing system you are
totally welcome to and those are still I
PFS notes and so we're actually taking
all of the peer-to-peer stuff and
removing it moving it out of I PFS into
its own project and we'll have a lot
more to say about that but it's going to
be called lip p2p nvidia is to create
like one central place where we can
write all the different period of your
protocols because there's a lot of use
cases where you know one use case is not
going to match every other use case and
one solution to that use case is
definitely not going to be the same
across the board right so some
applications want to work globally and
are fine using a DHD and so on but other
applications weren't want to work inside
of a data center and they need really
fast resolution times and they need to
be able to move content you know less
than a second like really we're talking
you know tens of milliseconds and we're
dealing with tens of milliseconds you
can't afford to go across the network so
ADHD doesn't make any sense in that case
or like a DHD that's global doesn't make
any sense
and so for those kinds of use cases you
need a protocol that is able to have
modules that can be swapped out by the
people building the applications on top
of them but are using the the node and I
BFS is such a system it allows you it is
well layered this is an idea that's very
old like the IETF constructed a whole
protocol suite that is well later where
each set of protocols can layer over
other protocols right you can layer your
own application on top of TCP which
layers on top of IP and IP layers on top
of ethernet for example or it could
layer on top of Wi-Fi or I could layer
on top of you know there's a whole bunch
of different kinds of network or
networking protocols and so it's not the
same idea of saying let's pick one
middle layer that's very very simple and
that's just a way of defining the data
to have merkel links such that you can
create a path traversal over them over
that graph and then create room for all
of these these peer-to-peer systems to
be plugged in and for you to be able to
choose what whichever one makes sense
for your application whichever one
satisfies your requirements and
constraints without forcing you to use
one that doesn't at all yeah so what
that means in a sense is like let's say
let's say five years into the future a
better BitTorrent is like a something
better than BitTorrent is invented to
move around data or happiness I PFS
let's say let's say this is next thing
comes on I don't know how intergalactic
something i don't know compared to move
data along that doesn't matter to I PFS
or to Ethie Liam if they put all their
state tree into I PFS because that new
system can the old bowl make way of
moving data a night I PFS can really
move and you can swap in this new system
and the the whole permanent web keeps
yep on without er exactly right keeping
the heartbeat we already have this where
there are groups of people making
private networks private IP FS networks
that have different routing protocol so
so they don't use the global tht they
use either they're only hg that's lets
you know smaller or something or they
use other routing protocols and so these
yeah discovery routing and distribution
like the exchange part all of these are
layers that people can write
and systems for and plug them in easily
so so big what kind of future invention
can so like I PFS today from the from
the perspective of the peer-to-peer
community it seems like a very great
idea because it's like in like in this
integrated system that can handle all of
these peer-to-peer applications into one
like what kind of future invention can
can break this and say okay we are not
satisfied with ipf s anymore and
something is it is it so fundamental
right that would have to be a better way
of storing data right well you would
have a better way of defining a Merkel
link which I mean there's only there's
only so many ways like when you look at
the heart of I PFS it's just a very
small format it's a tiny little thing
and so yeah it would just have to be a
different implementation that either if
they just don't want to use a different
format then that's possible but and it
would have to be like a really good
reason for that but I guess in a sense
yeah like we we are different from the
regular web in that I PFS data is not
all HTML files that's one example so we
don't use HTML style linking but we do
still use linking that can work with the
w3c and so on so we're still compatible
so in a sense these are these aren't
systems that replace each other
wholesale these are systems that start
collaborating and and complementing each
other and over time are used by
different kinds of systems right so if
you look at HTTP pages many of them
include links to FTP and many of them
include links to bittorrent and many of
them include links to a whole bunch of
other systems and the whole point is to
have a web that can address every kind
of system out there this is not ipms
idea this is an old idea this is Tim
berners-lee's idea about creating one
unified web we were just extending that
unified web to a whole class of
protocols that weren't that required a
different kind of distribution mechanism
that were more peer-to-peer that were
decentralized that were that you smirk
linking as the core basic idea
yeah so so one of the one of the
components of I PFS that sort of came a
little later is the idea is it was in
there in the design from the beginning
but that was implemented perhaps a bit
later was mutability the idea that i can
give a link to somebody like I p NS /
something and that always goes to a
single page but that page could keep
changing over time yeah so basically the
the core I PFS data structure is a
Merkel linked data structure which is
immutable kind of like get underneath
the hood has a bunch of immutable
objects but you still want to be able
and so you can hand out references to
people that are that are always going to
be pointing to that file and so nobody
can change it those are immutable now
you also want to be able to hand out
references and links to that point to a
mutable file that changes over time that
you know today's is a web page that like
a blog right for example like you have a
blog and I could have one message today
and I give you the URL to that blog or
that you are right to that blog and
tomorrow you can check it and there's
another post there right without that
name changing and so the point here is
how can you do that in a decentralized
way and so the the construction of I pns
is that it's a name system that instead
of defining a new name and naming
Authority like so many other systems to
we instead want to work with everyone
and say you can follow whatever naming
system you want and I PFS nodes will try
their best to resolve it and so will
have a bunch of them baked into the
protocol one of those systems is an SMS
inspired key naming system and this is
kind of completed with I pns or it is a
core part of I pns but the way that it
works is that you can hand out a
reference that is just to the hash of
your public key and that addresses a
pointer that to a file right 022 I PFS
coma and so people are authenticated and
self certifying links because when I
give you that link because it's a hash
of a public key when you try to resolve
it the pointers that you find in the
network
like the records thinking about in terms
of the NS right if you were looking up
for you know food calm on DNS you run a
DNS resolver that goes and talks to
other DNS servers and gets you know some
record that tells you where you know it
gives you an IP address for food com the
DNS system has some authentication
system but it's different from this one
so the idea here is when I give you the
name it's actually the hash map of
public key which means that the only
people capable of changing that name
must control the private key so it's a
way of giving you a naming authority
that is cryptography itself so it's not
mediated by anything except cryptography
you don't have to register any name you
don't have to like pay anyone or
anything you just create a
public/private key pair now the thing
about that is that it's not human
readable so it's not a nice and
memorable name so you know that that
doesn't it's not very nice you have to
copy paste these hashes but the benefit
is that you don't I in you don't have to
register anything you can just create
them entirely distributed so you could
have a register you don't need a
registry that centralized right so all
name registries knee require the form of
consensus to clear them right so whether
you're registering a name through you
know the DNS registrar's or you're
registering a name on etherium or you're
registering a name on bitcoin and so on
there is a central body that's doing the
allocation of names even though bitcoin
and etherium are decentralized networks
you're still participating in a central
system that allocates the namespace and
that is is good to be able to do human
readable names but if you don't require
human readable names you can create a
pointer and just do it entirely
decentralized and like really honestly
completely decentralized you're just
mediated by physics right and like
that's a very kind of appealing way of
doing names right you don't have and so
this is something you absolutely need to
be able to do names you know like we
mentioned before across planets because
if you had a registry that took like
sinking across planets before you could
register a name then you would have a
key huge lag time before you could
actually get a name I guess like
dns is actually so bad that the dns
register system is so bad that is worse
than if you had to let go send messages
to Mars and back but you know today you
can register our name on a theorem in
like you know a block time right so it's
super fast I guess is to block times I
think maybe silicon's but whatever its
you can register names extremely quickly
and you can also register names on
Bitcoin as well and again it's super
fast way better but it's centralized and
so if you wanted to have a blockchain on
Mars or you know some area that is
disconnected from the backbone so you
can't reach the Bitcoin network like
then you couldn't register a name and
that's an issue right and so I pns is
there as a layer of indirection so the
way that it's really used is that you
take your human readable name and you
point that one too I pns and then I pns
points to I PFS content cool so has that
been implemented yes it's been live for
a while and people are using it we still
are we're still not recommending people
rely on it yet because we are working on
a whole bunch of optimizations around it
and increasing that consistency and a
whole bunch of issues but it is there
and you can play with it and you can
check it out and yeah so what what do
cool stuff will you deliver next for the
a PFS system so i think most exciting is
are completely javascript implementation
so today we have a go implementation but
we'll have a fully full implication in
javascript that will be able to be
dropped directly on a page on the top of
a browser and so that way you can have
zero friction to using I PFS you can
write a website one I PFS and ship it
and then give people and address and
that address will first tell them to
download this JavaScript implementation
and then load everything through our PFS
but the user will not have to install
anything like it'll the brass rail just
do everything so basically I open a tab
and there's an IP FS node running in the
background I don't even realize it yeah
I am so finger website on I PFS and I
don't feel the change in system at all
yes exactly 0 for a champ it's it's not
as fast as if you happy implementation
running on the browser itself which is
what we also building but you actually
need these two things so you need a zero
friction install and you need a
a browser implementation okay so where
can I listeners get in touch with you or
your team yeah so you can you can the
website for I PFS is ipf SEO and you can
come talk to us on github you can file
issues there it's really a very open and
active community you can also and we
have tons of repositories lots of really
interesting collaborations with lots of
other groups and we have a very active
IRC channel so if you if you're old
school like us you can before before
slacked up over all the centralized
communities you can log on IRC and come
to pound I PFS on freenode and you can
talk to us there by the way yeah if you
if you were have a decentralized
attributed project and you're using
slack you should think twice about that
that's true but anyway I actually really
like select the product is very good I
just don't like that it's a centralized
system that doesn't have end-to-end
encrypted data and it's actually a huge
honey pot for hackers that are going to
come in and steal all your data from
slack servers so good luck if you're if
you're if you're a company and you're
using slack and putting valuable data
there good luck all right cool consider
this this is your warning yeah exactly
and if you're not part of the slack team
please like just give us authenticated
into an encryption and let us host
around nodes and just have us pay you
for the software you can totally make
one ins with anyone it's another whole
other thing I guess one less thing to
say is I have seen so i came to give
this talk about I PFS DEFCON because a
lot of people are using IP FS in the
theorem networking community but I was
extremely impressed by by just how
popular it is I didn't know that so many
projects were depending on it and so
that's that's really exciting and cool
and so I guess as a message out to all
of the theorem community like if you
find any if you have any features that
you want any any anything just please
come come and tell us and we'll we'll
improve the stuff for you and yeah yeah
that's all I great really cool all
social systems are addressing stuff when
I PFS like from the persona so that I
mentioned people are soaring like music
and video files people are building
the apps that do like I saw one that was
kind of like a Dropbox file syncing
thing that used that you type if has to
address all the content yeah lots of
really cool cool stuff so definitely
check it out check this out great great
to see your progress one again and we'll
have you back on the show again yeah
sounds good all right take care